[JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: Hello, and welcome
to the "Supercharged" TL;DW.
Last time, Paul and I took
our advance through the code
and build a back end for it
that does server-side rendering.
I'm going to show you what that
actually means in the browser.
So if you look at my
screen, you see nothing new.
It's still the
advance what we built,
and we can go to all the
different subsections
with the nice
transitions that we have.
However, if you look at the
network panel, in this case,
we are only transmitting
minimal amounts of data--
the exact data that
we need to show
what this section is about.
And yet, if I refresh
the page, it still
works, because in
that case, the server
has decided that the entire
scaffolding needs to be sent.
And to how that works in detail,
let's go over to Theory Corner,
or as we call it, [INAUDIBLE].
Welcome to Theory Corner.
This Node server is
what we have built.
It's a web server
written in Node
that takes the requests
from the browser.
These requests could be for the
home page, the About section,
the Contact section, whatever
we have in the site nav.
The server takes this request
and reads a header file,
the contents, and
the footer file,
and assembles these three
parts into response that
get sent back to the browser.
However, if there is a partial
flag present in the query part,
that is instructing the
server to only send back
the contents, which is
what happens when we
do dynamic in-page navigation.
And this is actually what is
called server-side rendering
because if the initial
request is for About,
the server will basically
inject the contents for About
into the return page, into the
scaffolding that is around it.
Let's look at the actual code
back in real-world corner.
Let's jump straight
into the code.
We're going to
start at the bottom
because that's the
logical thing to do.
So we're using Express
to start our web server.
And we are using SPDY because
ironically, the actual HTTP/2
module doesn't
work with Express,
but SPDY does, and serves
HTTP/2 and not SPDY.
So that's kind of nice to have.
So we have our
certificates here.
We're starting a web
server that serves our app,
and we're binding
it to port 8081.
The actual app itself
consists of two handlers,
the one handler that we're going
to talk about in a bit that
actually does the
server-side rendering,
and below that,
we are just using
Express' static middleware that
does nothing else [INAUDIBLE]
the straight-up deliver files
from disk over the network.
It's just static file delivery.
So let's talk about
the actual heart
of this server, which is the
server-side rendering function.
It is a handler, and it takes
care of all the requests
that are for HTML websites.
These can have multiple shapes
because it could be just
a slash, it could
be /index HTML,
or it could be any of these
subsections with an optional
index HTML at the end.
And we turned that into
a regular expression,
and just put that into
the Express handler.
And the first thing we
do-- we are extracting
the zeroth element from
the parents object, which
is the first parentheses from
the reg expression, meaning it
is an empty string if
you're on the home page,
or it's the name
of the subsection
if we're in any of
the subsections.
And what we are
figuring out next
is-- this is, as I
mentioned, in Theory Corner,
if it's a partial request,
or a full page request.
If it is a partial request, the
only file that we need to read
is the index of that subsection.
So if we, for example,
look in the index
HTML of the About
section, it just
has this one line that I
showed in the DevTools earlier.
If it is not a
partial request, we
need to read the header
file, the partial file,
and the footer,
and assemble these
to form the actual response.
What we're doing next
is after successfully
reading all these
files-- is we're
turning them into strings
because originally, we get back
buffers.
And we can't really
work on buffers.
So we're turning
them into strings.
And then we are
using Handlebars.
The reason we are
using Handlebars,
which is a templating
engine, is because we
have to do minor
manipulations in the header
to accommodate for the data
we are going to inject.
And what I mean by that is--
let's take a look at the header
file-- is that in
the header file,
we have all the views that
are currently not visible.
But these are four
views, and we only
need three because one
of them is actually
going to be rendered by our
server-side rendering logic.
So we wrote a little
Handlebars handler
that will exclude that remote
view that is currently in use.
So if we are on the About
page, these three lines
will not appear in the output
because we are actually
going to inject the data.
And this is what
we are doing next.
We have these three files.
We're just assembling
them step by step,
concatenating them, and
then sending them back
to the client.
Additionally, we are also
generating in the ETag.
This ETag is there to allow
efficient client-side caching.
It is purely based on the
contents that we have.
And we're just using a SHA256
checksum to [INAUDIBLE]
it based on the contents.
We are adding these
ETag headers via the set
method of our response.
And we also set sensible
cache control headers.
These cache control headers mean
that even though the client is
allowed to cache them,
it has to revalidate
every single time a request
goes out for the same page.
In case an error happens
in any of these steps--
and this is one of the
beauties of promises--
we are just using the
promise chain's catch handler
to set the status to 500,
meaning internal server error,
and appending our
error strings so
that we as developer know
what just went wrong and can
fix our code.
Luckily, that didn't
even happen on stream.
So we could never show off
that it actually works.
And that's already it.
This is how you do
server-side rendering.
You take the index HTML,
you inject the content
the user actually
requested, and then you
send it back to the client.
The code I just skimmed
over is on GitHub.
And you will find the link to
the repo in the description
of this video.
Another link you can
find in description
is the link to the
full-length livestream
that Paul and I did where
you can see how we built
this entire thing step by step.
If you want to know
more, subscribe
to this channel on YouTube,
or follow us on Twitter.
Thanks for watching.
See you next time.
[JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING]
The lights up there?
You could click them.
It makes you subscribe.
It's a good thing.
And also, if you want
to see me panic live
on stream, where I can't figure
out why HTTP/2 is not working,
go there-- that's
the live stream--
and you will have an hour
long of pure entertainment.